The recommended way to contribute is to use the NNTP server, but
the ticket system and IRC and GitHub mirror can also be used. All
contributions must be public; private contributions will not be accepted.

(Note to GitHub users: Only people who have a GitHub account can use the
GitHub issues and pull requests system (so other people who do not have a
GitHub account will be unable to reply), and the GitHub terms of service
apply to your use of GitHub. Also, pull requests cannot be accepted from
GitHub, although you are free to submit them anyways; if you do, then
they will be entered manually by using Fossil, and the changes that are
made will then be mirrored to GitHub.)

Any kinds of contributions may potentially be accepted or rejected.
However, just because we accept one of your contributions does not
mean that we will accept all of them, and just because we reject one
of your contributions does not mean we will reject all of them.
Discussions can also be made before accepting/rejecting it.

Types of contributions include (but are not necessarily limited to):

* Documentation

* Code improvements

* Bug reports

* Feature requests

* Promotion

* Testing

Please use only plain ASCII text (no Unicode or HTML). However, if you
contribute documentation translated into languages other than English,
or puzzle sets containing text in languages other than English, then you
may use other character encodings that are appropriate for that language.
Documentation in other formats than plain text is acceptable, although the
main documentation must be only plain ASCII text.

You may fork the repository if wanted (although doing so is not required),
but you may not write to the main or mirror repository; I am the only one
who has write access and this will (probably) not be granted to others.

You can see the TODO list, NNTP, tickets, etc, for some ideas, too.


=== Code improvements ===

If you wish to submit code improvements, submit patches using the NNTP,
or use GitHub pull requests (but see the important note above if you wish
to use GitHub).

If you wish to add new opcodes, configuration settings, or built-in
messages, then you must have Node.js (or a compatible JavaScript runtime
engine) installed, since the data for these features is compiled using
JavaScript programs. (Node.js is not needed at run time, though.) (See
PORTING and FAQ for some information about JavaScript use.)

Source code must be purely ASCII; do not use Unicode or any other
character encoding.

If it implements a new feature, it ought to be documented; see the below
section about documentation improvements.

Please provide a short description of the changes. However, this does not
substitute for an actual code review; I will review the changes myself
anyways, and accept (possibly with modifications) or reject it.


=== Documentation improvements ===

If you wish to submit documentation improvements, then you should submit
them on the NNTP, or using GitHub pull requests (but see the important note
above if you wish to use GitHub).

Normally (unless an exception is needed, which sometimes it might), all
documentation should be plain ASCII text files, in English, and should
normally be wrapped to 75 characters (unless a longer line is needed for
any purpose).

You may submit translations of documentation into languages other than
English, and they can use the appropriate character encoding for the
language that they are written in. (However, all features must include
documentation in English, even if those features are only applicable
when dealing with non-English text.)


=== Bug reports ===

To make a bug report, the recommended way is to post a message on the NNTP,
but you may also use IRC or the GitHub issues. Before posting a bug report,
read the following list and provide as much of these things as is possible:

* Check if the bug has already been reported/known. (If you have further
comments about an existing report, you can post a follow-up message.)

* Use a clear title and description.

* Mention the version of Free Hero Mesh used (i.e. the SHA-1 hash of the
manifest file).

* Mention what operating system, and what versions of GCC, SQLite, and
SDL, you are using. If you are using the SDL compatibility layer, then
please mention that, too.

* Describe any changes you made to the configuration of the program (in
the .heromeshrc file, etc), any command-line switches used, etc.

* Any compiler options you used.

* Steps to reproduce the unexpected behaviour. Make a minimal test case
with as few things as possible which exhibits the bug. Include a minimal
puzzle set with the bug, if possible.

* Mention what behaviour you observed, and what behaviour is expected
(and why, if applicable).

* Screenshots should be external, not attached to the message. They
should be in PNG format (even if it is an animation; do not use GIF),
and should be a direct link (not a link to a HTML file, and not using
a URL shortening service).

* If it crashed, or if there is an invalid memory access, using valgrind
and/or gdb to obtain additional information about the crash or the invalid
memory access.

* Include a patch, if you can. Patches must be public domain.

(If you cannot do all of the above, that is OK; do however many of them
as you can, and omit whatever you cannot do.)


=== Feature requests ===

To make a feature request, the recommended way is to post a message on the
NNTP, but you may also use IRC or the GitHub issues. Before posting, read
the following, and provide as much of the following as is possible:

* Check if there is already a similar request. (If you have further
comments about an existing report, you can post a follow-up message.)

* Use a clear title and description.

* If it is inspired by some other game or software project, then you
should provide a citation.

* Describe how you intend it to work, even if you do not have full
details; a discussion can be made to figure out more, if that would help.
Include interaction with other features, syntax, interface, etc.

* Include an implementation, if you can. Patches must be public domain.

(If you cannot do all of the above, that is OK; do however many of them
as you can, and omit whatever you cannot do.)

